Project 1 Proposal MTA data 

Backstory:
    We are trying to utilize the data from MTA in order to help our team reach the most potential participants for our summer softball league. Zogsports currently runs a softball league in Queens, but we are hoping to gain traction here in Manhattan as well. We are hoping to reach those interested in the sport with a desire to play in our league with games held at a field in Central Park. 

Question/need:
What is the framing question of your analysis, or the purpose of the model/system you plan to build?
      The answer we are trying to find with this analysis is which subway stations - near Yankee Stadium and Central Park receive the most foot traffic and at which time of day. We want to know the best time of day to place team members in the field in order to get participants to sign up for our new softball league.   
      
Who benefits from exploring this question or building this model/system?
    Our organization will benefit the most in order to be seen by the most people either potentially interested in softball or near central park. 

Data Description:
What dataset(s) do you plan to use, and how will you obtain the data?
    We want to begin advertising in the first week of April (aligned with opening week for the MLB) in time for us to have teams set up for our July-Aug summer league. As a result, we will use data  in the weeks of April, May and June from 2019 (not taking 2020 data due to covid). Furthermore, we will narrow that data down to specific subway stations near Yankee Stadium as well as near our softball field in Central Park. The hope here is we will find those interested in the sport near Yankee Stadium and then find those frequently in the area where games are held near stations by Central Park. 
    
What is an individual sample/unit of analysis in this project? What characteristics/features do you expect to work with? 
    The datasets I'll be looking at are the entry and exit numbers in April, May and June in the 86th and 96th street stations (near central park) as well as the Yankee Stadium stop: 161st Street. We may also take into account the same data for surrounding stations if we find it applicable. I plan to take a look at the summary statistics for these databases such mean, max, and minimum to gather information relevant to our goals. 

Tools:
How do you intend to meet the tools requirement of the project?
    I will be using the SQL keywords in order to narrow down the data gathered from the MTA website . This will include the JOIN, WHERE, ORDER BY, GROUP BY and HAVING key words and possibly more. Once I have cleaned up my data I will get the data into Python in order to create series and data frames that can be used to create visualization using matplotlib. I plan to mainly use scatter plots and histograms for these visualizations; however, I may use other visualizations as I see fit.

MVP Goal:
What would a minimum viable product (MVP) look like for this project?
A potential MVP for this project will show a visualization of the days and times in which foot traffic is the highest entering and exiting stations surrounding Central Park and Yankee Stadium. 

